docs/pieces/pieces_repository.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Pieces repository

:::tip 
The easiest way to start your Pieces repository is to use our [Template for Pieces repository](https://github.com/Tauffer-Consulting/domino_pieces_repository_template).  
You can either clone it using git or use our CLI command `domino pieces create`.
:::

A Pieces repository is a git repository that contains multiple Pieces available to be used in Domino Workflows. A Domino Pieces repository should contain:

- a `pieces/` folder containing all [Pieces](./pieces_repository#piece-folder) folders
- a [dependencies/](./pieces_repository#dependencies) folder with all `Dockerfile` and `requirements.txt` files defined as Pieces dependencies
- a [config.toml](./pieces_repository#configtoml) configuration file
- a `.domino/` folder containing the `dependencies_map.json` and `compiled_metadata.json` files, which are automatically generated by the [Github](./pieces_repository#github-actions)

```bash title="Repository folders and files structure"
dependencies/
├── Dockerfile_2
└── requirements_1.txt
pieces/
└── FirstPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    ├── piece.py
    └── test_firstpiece.py
└── SecondPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    ├── piece.py
    └── test_secondpiece.py
config.toml
```

## Piece Folder

The `pieces/` folder should contain all the Pieces in the repository. Each Piece folder name should have the sufix `Piece` and follow a standard organization and contain certain information to be able to be found and used by your deployed Domino instance. Example: 

```bash title="Piece folder example"
pieces/
└── FirstPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    └── piece.py
```

For detailed information on how to create a Piece, see [Create Pieces](./create_pieces).


## Dependencies

The `/dependencies` folder should contain all the `requirements.txt` and `Dockerfile` files that were defined as dependencies in the `metadata.json` files of the Pieces in this repository. Example:

```bash title="Dependencies folder example"
dependencies/
├── Dockerfile_1
├── requirements_1.txt
└── requirements_2.txt
```

## config.toml

The `config.toml` file stores the configuration variables for the repository. Example:

```toml title="Repository's configuration file"
[repository]
# The name of the github owner, must be in lower-case letters
REGISTRY_NAME = "github_owner_name"

# The name of this Pieces repository
REPOSITORY_NAME = "example_pieces"

# The label of this Pieces repository, as it will appear in Domino GUI
REPOSITORY_LABEL = "OpenAI Domino Pieces"

# The version of this Pieces release
VERSION = "0.1.0"
```

## Github actions

Our [Template for Pieces repository](https://github.com/Tauffer-Consulting/domino_pieces_repository_template) provides out-of-the box Github actions to validate, organize and publish your Pieces images.
Whenever the `config.toml` file of a pieces repository is updated, the actions will run and some files will be automatically created or modified inside the repository's `/.domino` folder:

- A `dependencies_map.json` file
- A `compiled_metadata.json` file

Besides that, the actions will also create the following artifacts within the repository:

- A `VERSION.tar.gz` file will be created as a release asset
- Docker images will be built and published to the repository's container registry (in Github this is named Packages). One image will be created for each dependency group, as defined in `.domino/dependencies_map.json` file.

:::info
For the actions to run successfully, make sure that under your repository `Settings -> Action -> General -> Workflow permissions` the option `Read and write permissions` is selected.
:::

![Piece repository action](/img/pieces_repository_slide_2.png)

Commit message:

add info about how actions are triggered

docs/pieces/pieces_repository.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Pieces repository

:::tip
The easiest way to start your Pieces repository is to use our [Template for Pieces repository](https://github.com/Tauffer-Consulting/domino_pieces_repository_template).
You can either clone it using git or use our CLI command `domino pieces create`.
:::

A Pieces repository is a git repository that contains multiple Pieces available to be used in Domino Workflows. A Domino Pieces repository should contain:

- a `pieces/` folder containing all [Pieces](./pieces_repository#piece-folder) folders
- a [dependencies/](./pieces_repository#dependencies) folder with all `Dockerfile` and `requirements.txt` files defined as Pieces dependencies
- a [config.toml](./pieces_repository#configtoml) configuration file
- a `.domino/` folder containing the `dependencies_map.json` and `compiled_metadata.json` files, which are automatically generated by the [Github](./pieces_repository#github-actions)

```bash title="Repository folders and files structure"
dependencies/
├── Dockerfile_2
└── requirements_1.txt
pieces/
└── FirstPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    ├── piece.py
    └── test_firstpiece.py
└── SecondPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    ├── piece.py
    └── test_secondpiece.py
config.toml
```

## Piece Folder

The `pieces/` folder should contain all the Pieces in the repository. Each Piece folder name should have the sufix `Piece` and follow a standard organization and contain certain information to be able to be found and used by your deployed Domino instance. Example:

```bash title="Piece folder example"
pieces/
└── FirstPiece/
    ├── metadata.json
    ├── models.py
    └── piece.py
```

For detailed information on how to create a Piece, see [Create Pieces](./create_pieces).


## Dependencies

The `/dependencies` folder should contain all the `requirements.txt` and `Dockerfile` files that were defined as dependencies in the `metadata.json` files of the Pieces in this repository. Example:

```bash title="Dependencies folder example"
dependencies/
├── Dockerfile_1
├── requirements_1.txt
└── requirements_2.txt
```

## config.toml

The `config.toml` file stores the configuration variables for the repository. Example:

```toml title="Repository's configuration file"
[repository]
# The name of the github owner, must be in lower-case letters
REGISTRY_NAME = "github_owner_name"

# The name of this Pieces repository
REPOSITORY_NAME = "example_pieces"

# The label of this Pieces repository, as it will appear in Domino GUI
REPOSITORY_LABEL = "OpenAI Domino Pieces"

# The version of this Pieces release
VERSION = "0.1.0"
```

## Github actions

Our [Template for Pieces repository](https://github.com/Tauffer-Consulting/domino_pieces_repository_template) provides out-of-the box Github actions to validate, organize and publish your Pieces images.
Whenever the `config.toml` file of a pieces repository is updated, the actions will run and some files will be automatically created or modified inside the repository's `/.domino` folder:

- A `dependencies_map.json` file
- A `compiled_metadata.json` file

Besides that, the actions will also create the following artifacts within the repository:

- A `VERSION.tar.gz` file will be created as a release asset
- Docker images will be built and published to the repository's container registry (in Github this is named Packages). One image will be created for each dependency group, as defined in `.domino/dependencies_map.json` file.

:::info
For the actions to run successfully, make sure that under your repository `Settings -> Action -> General -> Workflow permissions` the option `Read and write permissions` is selected.
:::

:::info
The actions are triggered only when the `config.toml` file is updated.
:::

![Piece repository action](/img/pieces_repository_slide_2.png)
